                    +-----------------+
                    | M E M B E N C H |           V1.7   5/98
                    +-----------------+


   V1.5 Improvements: Fixed MHz measurement bug (lock-up after 256 MHz).
                      Improved processor recognition: AMD K6, Cyrix M2, Pentium II.
                      Added AMD K6 and Cyrix M2 computers to compare with.

   V1.6 Improvement: Added automatic result file generation.
   V1.7 Improvements: Fixed video test crash bug
                      Improved MHz measurement accuracy (tenfold)
                      Improved documentation.




This program is shareware, it may be used for an UNLIMITED period of
evaluation free of charge, by private users only. It is not Freeware and
is not allowed to be used in a commercial or government environment.
If you like it you should register in order to receive the registered
version with full source code.
MEMBENCH is created, owned and licensed exclusively by Intelligent Firmware.
Web: www.intelligentfirm.com,  Email: membench@intelligentfirm.com .
Reverse-engineering or modifying this software is strictly prohibited.



MEMBENCH measures 33 different transfer types of your PC's CPU, motherboard,
memory and add-in cards and compares it with 8 other computers.
It clearly shows every processor's bus performance and deficiencies. 
MEMBENCH is written in pure assembly (with ASM32) in 32 bit protected mode
and its measurements are very accurate and stable.

MEMBENCH can be used in two ways: 
1. To demonstrate exactly how much your PC benefits from using the innovative
   methods compared to the standard ones. The innovative methods are the
   workarounds used to overcome Pentium's performance flaw. Please see 
   http://www.intelligentfirm.com for more details on the flaw.
2. As the best benchmark in measuring accurately every kind of bandwidth in
   your PC and comparing it to other PCs.

MEMBENCH consists of the following benchmarks: 

1. Main memory benchmarks: Measure all aspects of main memory transfers
   including: read rate, innovative read rate, random read rate, write rate,
   innovative write rate, random write rate, transfer rate, innovative
   transfer rate, MMX innovative transfer rate. 
2. Secondary cache memory benchmarks: Measure all aspects of secondary cache
   (L2 cache) transfers.
   Depending on the program used, secondary cache speed may be more important
   than main memory speed.
3. Primary cache memory benchmarks: Measure reading and writing from the
   primary (L1) cache.
4. Video memory benchmarks: Measure all aspects of video memory transfers 
   including: read rate, random read rate, write rate, innovative write rate,
   random write rate, transfer rate, innovative transfer rate, MMX innovative
   transfer rate. The great majority of games copy many times a second entire
   screens to video memory; that can be measured by the 3 video transfer
   rate elements.
5. I/O benchmarks: Measure ISA and PCI/VL bus I/O bandwidth including: 8 bit
   ISA sound card read / write rate, 16 bit ISA sound card read / write rate,
   32 bit PCI/VL hard disk read / write rate. 



Syntax: "?"  : help
        "0"  : video benchmark in text mode
        "1"  : 320*200*256
        "2"  : 640*480*256   VESA  (Default)
        "3"  : 800*600*256   VESA
        "4"  : 1024*768*256  VESA
        "5"  : 1280*1024*256 VESA
 

Additional information for Video memory benchmark:
 To translate the result (Mbytes per sec) to millions pixels per sec, just
 multiply it by 2 for 320*200 ("1") or by 1 for all others ("2" or greater).
 You can select the resolution at which your graphics card will be measured.
 Default resolution is 640*480 by 256 colors ("2"). If you have an old PC 
 and this doesn't work, try running first a UNIVBE type of program (which
 makes your graphics card VESA compatible) or if that fails also, run 
 MEMBENCH with the "1" switch (i.e. "MEMBENCH 1"). If you are testing a 
 non-VGA computer use "MEMBENCH 0".


Comparing: Generally each of the 8 other computers uses common parts
           available when its processor became available. In addition,
           all of them are tuned for maximum performance.


Usage instructions:
> MEMBENCH will run only at 32 bit computers (from 386 upward). The 
  innovative rates are not suitable for a 486 due to its 16 byte burst
  length. (Pentium upwards have 32 bytes).
> MEMBENCH is a 32bit protected mode program which needs 100% of your
  computer's resources for itself, therefore it runs only under plain DOS.
> Windows 95 users: While your computer is booting press Shift "F5" in order
                    not to boot Windows and to stay in DOS instead.
                    OR while in Windows 95 press "START", "SHUTDOWN", 
                    "Restart the computer in MSDOS mode"
> Non-Windows 95 users: Reboot your computer and while booting press "F5"
                        in order to boot clean.
> If you wish to experiment with different video modes, issue "MEMBENCH ?"
> Run MEMBENCH.
> After you have finished running all benchmarks, Membench will display a
  message that RESULTS.BIN is ready.
> Please send your RESULTS.BIN file as an email attachment to 
  results@intelligentfirm.com and you will receive free upgrades and if your
  computer is different/slower/faster than the computers at our submitted 
  results page, we might include it also:
  <http://www.intelligentfirm.com/membench/results.html>
  Please include your name, email address, some computer details (CPU,
  motherboard, memory type, graphics card) and any comments you might have.
  RESULTS.BIN contains exactly the results of your computer which Membench
  displayed. If you wish to receive a text table (with percentages and 
  everything) of your RESULTS.BIN state it in your email. Also if you don't
  mind, we could include your email address if we put your computer in our
  results page, in order for people with similar computers to be able to 
  email you (e.g. to ask you how your computer is so fast :) ).
  

Bugs: Membench can operate in 2 modes: with HIMEM.SYS loaded or without.
      Very few computers have a problem with one of both methods (very low
      results and/or reboots while testing). In case that happens, use the
      other method, that is if HIMEM.SYS is loaded, boot without it and 
      vice versa. If you find any other problem, please let us know.



Note:

Membench is MHz independent. That is, a Pentium MMX-233 and a Pentium
MMX-166 will produce almost exactly the same results.
'Read' i.e. a program searches; most important. 
'Write' i.e. a program initializes or updates a memory area. 
'Transfer' i.e. a program copies or moves data from one area to another
(e.g. _fmemcpy).
Video memory transfer rate is very important in games in particular, because
it plays a major role in their frame rate (frames per second).


What is bandwidth and why is it so important:

Current processors run at very high MHz internally, while externally they are
much slower. e.g. on a 200 MHz processor, only what can fit in the internal 
(or L1) cache of 32/64 kbytes runs at 200 MHz; bigger programs/data have to
be read from the secondary (L2) cache of 512 kbytes, which operates at only
66 MHz (much higher on Pentium II); real big programs/data which cannot fit
in the L2 cache have to be read from main memory of 16/32/64 Mbytes.
(Of course Windows 95/NT programs won't even fit in the main memory and will
swap to the hard disk!).
That's why main memory and L2 cache read/write/transfer rates (in short
bandwidth) are so important; and a 233 MHz processor is less than 5% faster
than the same one at 200 MHz! 




 Comments:
Write performance: It is obvious that processors split in to two groups: the
                   normal group (Intel Pentium, Pentium MMX, Cyrix 133) and
                   the 'write allocation' group (Cyrix MX 166, AMD K6,
                   Intel Pentium Pro, Pentium II). Processors using write
                   allocation have significantly slower write and transfer
                   performance, especially to main memory, because they read
                   the whole cache line before they write to it. This gives
                   some advantages on some programs which write repeatedly
                   to the same areas. The clearest negative impact of write
                   allocation can be seen in the 'main memory random write'
                   test.
Cyrix 686MX L2 :   Two of Cyrix MX's secondary cache tests have astronomical
                   values ('Random read' 689.95 Mb/sec and 'Random write'
                   317.46 Mb/sec). These values are NOT correct! Cyrix MX 
                   is the only processor with a 64Kb unified L1 cache and 
                   the two random L2 tests can fit into this huge L1 cache.
AMD K6 performance:The AMD K6 is the only processor we ever found with the
                   performance flaw, which could not be worked around. 
                   (Intel's P6 processors don't have the performance flaw 
                   in main memory access and that's why they have a much
                   improved 'conventional read rate' while K6 has the same
                   as Cyrix and Pentium.
Memory type:       All computers in MEMBENCH are using EDO memory. The 
                   performance improvements using SDRAM are small, and not
                   justified by its price tag. Of course our workarounds 
                   operate correctly whatever type of memory or L2 cache a 
                   processor has (DRAM, EDO, SDRAM, SRAM); the processor has
                   the flaw not the memory.
Write rates:       Membench's innovative write rates are achieved using 64
                   bit writes, a method roughly documented by Intel in its 
                   1997 Optimizations manual; the 'performance flaw' 
                   revealed in our site is a read buffer flaw; that is it
                   affects only read and transfer rates.



DETAILED BENCHMARK EXPLANATIONS:

 1. Main memory benchmarks:
    * Read rate: read from main memory with the best normal method.
    * Innovative Read rate: read from main memory with the best innovative 
      (alternative) method, in order to avoid the read flaw and achieve
      maximum read rate.
    * Random read: read from main memory from random addresses (not sequentially).
    * Write rate: write to main memory with the best normal method (REP STOSD,
      which is used by most compilers).
    * Innovative write rate: write to main memory using 64bit floating point
      writes, which doubles the performance on Pentium systems.
    * Random write rate: write to main memory to random addresses (not sequentially).
    * Transfer rate: read from and write to main memory using the best
      normal method (REP MOVSD, which is used by most compilers).
    * Inn. Transfer rate: read from and write to main memory using the best
      innovative (alternative) method, in order to avoid the read flaw and
      achieve maximum transfer rate.
    * Inn. MMX Transfer rate: same as previous but using MMX instructions.

 2. Secondary cache memory benchmarks: 
    Same as main memory rates but everything is from/to/from&to secondary
    (L2) cache.

 3. Primary cache memory benchmarks:
    * Read rate: read from memory cached in the on-chip primary (L1) cache.
    * Write rate: write to memory cached in the on-chip L1 cache.
    (Other rates: Random read/write=read/write; transfer=(read+write)/2).

 4. Video memory (graphics card) benchmarks: (in 6 user selectable resolutions)
    * Read rate: read from video memory with the best normal method.
    * Random read rate: read from video memory from random addresses (not
      sequentially).
    * Write rate: write to video memory with the best normal method
      (REP STOSD, which is used by most compilers).
    * Innovative write rate: write to video memory using 64bit floating point
      writes.
    * Random write rate: write to video memory to random addresses (not sequentially).
    * Transfer rate: read from main memory and write to video memory using the
      best normal method (REP MOVSD, which is used by most compilers). 
    * Inn. Transfer rate: read from main memory and write to video memory
      using the best innovative (alternative) method, in order to avoid the
      read flaw and achieve maximum transfer rate.
    * Inn. MMX Transfer rate: same as previous but using MMX instructions.
    The transfer rates divided by the frame size, give the maximum frame rate
    of the video card.

 5. I/O benchmarks: 
    * 8 bit ISA sound card read: reads from 8bit soundcard address.
    * 8 bit ISA sound card write: writes to 8bit soundcard address.
    * 16bit ISA sound card read: reads from 16bit soundcard address.
    * 16bit ISA sound card write: writes to 16bit soundcard address.
    * 32bit PCI/VL hard disk read: reads from the onboard EIDE hard disk
      interface. Performance depends on hard disk mode (0-4).
      Note: No actual disk access is made, just the maximum interface (CPU,
      chipset, PCI/VL bus, hard disk controller & buffer) bandwidth is measured.
    * 32bit PCI/VL hard disk write: same as previous, but write.
     



  Registration:

When you register you will receive the registered version of Membench and 
its source code including a complete demonstration of our workarounds and
performance enhancing techniques. You can use any part of the source code
in your programs.
Please have a look at www.intelligentfirm.com/membench/membench.html



Intel and Pentium are registered trademarks of Intel corporation.
Other trademarks referenced in this document are owned by their respective
companies


LIMITED WARRANTY

THESE PROGRAMS AND ACCOMPANYING WRITTEN MATERIALS ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
TO THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  NEITHER THE AUTHOR NOR ANYONE ELSE WHO HAS BEEN INVOLVED IN THE
CREATION, PRODUCTION OR DELIVERY OF THIS PRODUCT SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE
OR INABILITY TO USE SUCH PRODUCT EVEN IF THE AUTHOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
