NEWPORT BEACH, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 19, 1999--eSynch
Corp.'s (OTC BB:ESYN.O) wholly owned subsidiary, Kiss Software Corp.
(KISSCO), Wednesday announced that RealNetworks (Nasdaq:RNWK.O)
RealStore, will sell Kissco's Internet products using the extensive
integrated e-commerce services of RealNetworks.
    RealNetworks Inc., the recognized leader in streaming media with
more than 58 million registered users of the RealPlayer(R), will be
hosting Kissco's award-winning products, including the newly released
and completely rewritten version of Modem Wizard, Speed Surfer
Internet Toolbox, Undo & Recover Toolbox and ShortCuts, in its online
RealStore located at www.realstore.com.
    "This agreement will allow us to utilize RealNetworks' robust
e-commerce technologies, and strengthen our e-commerce presence and
opportunities," said Don Watters, president/COO of eSynch. "This
relationship also makes it easy for anyone to visit the RealNetworks'
online RealStore, and with the click of a button, purchase our
Internet utilities."
    "We are pleased to offer Kiss Software products in RealStore,"
said Mike Eisenberg, general manager of Consumer E-Commerce,
RealNetworks. "Kiss Software's utilities address basic and advanced
needs that most every Internet and computer user faces."

    Kiss Software Corp.

    Kissco's mission statement is "keeping Internet solutions
simple." Kissco has headquarters at 15502 Mosher Drive, Tustin, Calif.
92780. Telephone: 888/454-7726, 714/258-1900, Fax: 714/258-7178. Web
site: http://www.kissco.com. E-mail: info@kissco.com. Corporate
contact: Don Watters (dcwatters@kissco.com).

    eSynch Corp.

    eSynch Corp. specializes in proprietary Internet utilities and
electronic software distribution. Today, 10 million active computer
users have either considered or acted upon e-commerce buying
opportunities. This active population is doubling one or two times
each year.
    Jupiter Communications says the electronic commerce (e-commerce)
market will grow from $706 million in 1996, to $37.5 billion in 2002,
(more than doubling each year) and is on track to eclipse traditional
catalog-style marketing in the first decade of the new millennium.
    Additionally, and to the company's favor, the number one
consumer requested e-commerce item, is software. Phone: 714/258-1900,
Fax: 714/258-7177, Web site: http://www.esynch.com.

    Statements herein express management's beliefs and expectations
regarding future performance and are forward-looking and involve risks
and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the ability to
negotiate outstanding prior debts of acquired companies; properly
identify acquisition partners; adequately perform due diligence;
manage and integrate acquired businesses; react to quarterly
fluctuations in results; raise working capital and secure other
financing; respond to competition and rapidly changing technology;
deal with market and stock price fluctuations; and other risks. These
risks are and will be detailed, from time to time, in eSynch's
Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including Form 10-KSB for
the year ended Dec. 31, 1997, and subsequent Forms 10-QSB and 8-K.
Actual results may differ materially from management's expectations.

     --30--JP/np*  JV/np

     CONTACT:  Kiss Software Corp., Newport Beach
               Rachel Kaseroff, 714/979-KISS 
               Fax: 714/979-9809
               Rachel@kissco.com

     KEYWORD:  CALIFORNIA
     INDUSTRY KEYWORD:  COMPUTERS/ELECTRONICS COMED PRODUCT
INTERACTIVE/MULTIMEDIA/INTERNET
Today's News On The Net - Business Wire's full file on the Internet
                          with Hyperlinks to your home page.
                          URL: http://www.businesswire.com


Copyright 1999, Business Wire